>> Woodruff: THE NOBEL PEACE
PRIZE GOES TO TWO CHILDREN'S
RIGHTS ACTIVISTS.
MALALA YOUSAFZAI OF PAKISTAN
SAID SHE AND KAILASH SATYARTHI
OF INDIA WOULD WORK TOGETHER TO
PROMOTE EDUCATION AND
DEVELOPMENT, DESPITE THE
TENSIONS BETWEEN THEIR
COUNTRIES.
>> WE SHOULD ALL CONSIDER EACH
OTHER HUMAN BEINGS, AND RESPECT
EACH OTHER, AND WE SHOULD FIGHT
FOR OUR RIGHTS, FOR THE RIGHTS
OF CHILDREN, FOR THE RIGHTS OF
WOMEN, AND FOR THE RIGHTS OF
EVERY HUMAN BEING.
>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING, I'M
JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, A WEST VIRGINIA COAL
TOWN'S NOVEL APPROACH TO GOOD
HEALTH, BETTER LIVING AND MORE
OPPORTUNITY.
AND IT'S FRIDAY, MARK SHIELDS
AND DAVID BROOKS ARE HERE,
TO ANALYZE THE WEEK'S NEWS.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE PAKISTANI GIRL
WHO WAS ALMOST KILLED BY THE
TALIBAN IS NOW THE YOUNGEST
NOBEL LAUREATE EVER.
MALALA YOUSAFZAI WON THE NOBEL
PEACE PRIZE TODAY, FOR
ADVOCATING EDUCATION FOR GIRLS.
SHE'LL SHARE THE HONOR WITH
KAILASH SATYARTHI OF INDIA,
WHO'S CAMPAIGNED FOR DECADES
AGAINST CHILD SLAVERY AND LABOR.
MALALA HEARD THE NEWS IN
BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND, WHERE SHE
NOW LIVES.
>> I FELT MORE POWERFUL AND MORE
COURAGEOUS BECAUSE THIS AWARD
IS NOT JUST A PIECE OF METAL
THAT YOU WEAR OR AN AWARD THAT
YOU KEEP IN YOUR ROOM BUT THIS
IS REALLY AN ENCOURAGEMENT FOR
ME ROOM BUT ENCOURAGEMENT TO GO
FORWARD AND TO BELIEVE IN MYSELF
TO KNOW THAT THERE ARE PEOPLE
THAT ARE SUPPORTING ME IN THIS
CAMPAIGN.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL HAVE A FULL
REPORT ON THE TWO PEACE PRIZE
WINNERS, AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
THE NUMBER OF EBOLA DEATHS HAS
NOW PASSED 4,000, OUT OF NEARLY
8,400 CASES.
THAT WORD TODAY FROM THE WORLD
HEALTH ORGANIZATION.
MEANWHILE, SEVEN MORE PEOPLE
WERE ADMITTED TO A HOSPITAL IN
MADRID, TO BE MONITORED.
THEY HAD CONTACT WITH THE FIRST
PERSON DIAGNOSED WITH THE
DISEASE IN SPAIN.
AND THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
REPORTED A LIBERIAN MAN, THOMAS
DUNCAN, HAD A FEVER OF 103
DEGREES WHEN A DALLAS HOSPITAL
INITIALLY TURNED HIM AWAY.
HE DIED WEDNESDAY.
THE UNITED NATIONS IS WARNING OF
A MASSACRE, IF ISLAMIC STATE
FIGHTERS IN SYRIA CAPTURE
KOBANI, ON THE BORDER WITH
TURKEY.
THE MILITANTS HAVE ALREADY TAKEN
40% OF THE TOWN FROM ITS KURDISH
DEFENDERS, AND FIGHTING RAGED
AGAIN TODAY.
THAT'S DESPITE STEPPED-UP
COALITION AIR STRIKES.
IN GENEVA, THE U.N. ENVOY TO
SYRIA SAID HE FEARS THE WORST.
>> WE KNOW, WE HAVE SEEN IT,
WHAT ISIL IS CAPABLE OF DOING,
WHEN THEY TAKE OVER A CITY.
WE KNOW WHAT THEY ARE CAPABLE OF
DOING WITH THEIR OWN VICTIMS,
WITH WOMEN, CHILDREN, MINORITIES
AND HOSTAGES.
>> Woodruff: SO FAR, TURKEY HAS
REFUSED TO ORDER ITS MILITARY TO
INTERVENE IN THE KOBANI FIGHT.
SPECULATION ABOUT WHO'S IN
CHARGE IN NORTH KOREA FLARED
AGAIN TODAY.
IT CAME AS THE COMMUNIST
NATION'S LEADER, KIM JONG UN,
MISSED ANOTHER MAJOR PUBLIC
EVENT.
LUCY WATSON, OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS, IS WATCHING THE
SITUATION FROM BEIJING.
>> Reporter: IT'S NORTH KOREAN
STATE TELEVISION SHOWING SIGHT
NOR SOUND OF THE COUNTRY'S
SUPREME LEADER AS THE NATION
CELEBRATES THE FOUNDING OF THE
WORKER PARTY WITHOUT HIM.
(SINGING)
KIM JONG-UN RULES THE MOST
ISOLATED COUNTRY ON EARTH YET
HASN'T BEEN SEEN FOR 37 DAYS,
MISSING A NUMBER OF HIGH-PROFILE
EVENTS.
IN A DEMOCRACY, HIS
DISAPPEARANCE WOULD GENERATE
CURIOSITY, BUT IN THE MOST
SECRETIVE STATE IN THE WORLD, IT
BR RUMORS.
THIS IS THE NORTH KOREAN
EMBASSY.
OUTSIDE THE COUNTRY THE
SPECULATION IS KIM JONG-UN MAY
HAVE BEEN OVERTHROWN IN A
PLANNED REVOLED BY POWER BROKERS
IN THE COUNTRY OR A MORE SUBTLE
LEAVING HIM TO BE A FIGUREHEAD
IN THE FUTURE OR SUFFERING FROM
AN ILLNESS.
THE LONGER HE FAILS TO MAKE
PUBLIC APPEARANCES, THE MOST
LIKELY THE PROBLEM IS A SERIOUS
ONE.
A PROBLEM THAT'S WORSE THAN JUST
THE LEG INJURY HE SUFFERED IN
THE PAST.
IT'S A THEORY BEING DISMIS DISMY
SOUTH KOREA AND THE MAN CHARGED
WITH STAGIZING RELATIONS WITH
THE NORTH.
KIM JONG-UN IS UNUSUAL.
IT'S NOW A WATCH ON HOW HE
REPAIRS AND HOW SOON.
IN SUCH AN OPAQUE NATION, ANY
SCENARIO IS PLAUSIBLE.
>> Woodruff: REUTERS QUOTED A
NORTH KOREAN SOURCE TODAY WHO
SAID KIM HURT HIS LEG IN A
MILITARY DRILL, BUT REMAINS IN
FULL CONTROL.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, PROTESTS
IN SOUTH ST. LOUIS SPILLED INTO
A SECOND NIGHT OVER WEDNESDAY'S
KILLING OF A BLACK TEENAGER BY A
WHITE POLICEMAN.
A CANDLELIGHT PRAYER VIGIL
TURNED INTO A STANDOFF WITH
POLICE IN RIOT GEAR.
PROTESTERS SHOUTED TAUNTS, AND
OFFICERS USED PEPPER SPRAY TO
FORCE THE ANGRY CROWD BACK.
MORE PROTESTS ARE SET THIS
WEEKEND OVER THE AUGUST KILLING
OF MICHAEL BROWN IN NEARBY
FERGUSON.
THERE'S GOING TO BE AN
INDEPENDENT REVIEW OF THE SECRET
SERVICE, AND BREACHES IN
PRESIDENTIAL SECURITY.
D SECURITY SECRETARY,
JEH JOHNSON, NAMED FOUR FORMER
WHITE HOUSE AND JUSTICE
OFFICIALS TODAY.
THEY SERVED UNDER PRESIDENTS
OBAMA AND GEORGE W. BUSH.
RECOMMENDATIONS ARE DUE BY
DECEMBER 15TH.
WALL STREET ENDED THIS VOLATILE
WEEK WITH MORE LOSSES.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
FELL 115 POINTS, TO 16,544.
IT'S NOW ERASED ALL OF THIS
YEAR'S GAINS.
THE NASDAQ WAS DOWN 102 POINTS
TO CLOSE AT 4,276.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 SLIPPED 22,
TO 1,906.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW LOST MORE
THAN 2.5%.
THE NASDAQ FELL 4 .5%.
AND THE S-AND-P SHED 3%.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE GOES TO
TWO LEADERS IN THE FIGHT FOR
CHILDREN'S RIGHTS AND EDUCATION;
PAUL SOLMAN REPORTS ON THE FAST-
GROWING SHARING ECONOMY;
A NEW FOCUS ON HEALTHY LIVING IN
WEST VIRGINIA COAL COUNTRY;
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS
ANALYZE THE WEEK'S NEWS;
AND, THE PATH OF FOUR SUDANESE
"LOST BOYS" LEADS TO AMERICA.
>> Woodruff: NOW BACK TO TODAY'S
TWO NOBEL PEACE PRIZE WINNERS.
ONE'S A GLOBAL ICON.
THE OTHER IS LARGELY UNKNOWN,
EVEN IN HIS HOME COUNTRY.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS MORE ON
BOTH OF THEM.
>> THE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE FOR
2014 IS TO BE AWARDED TO KAILASH
SATYARTHI AND MALALA YOUSAFZAI
>> Sreenivasan: FOR MALALA, THE
ANNOUNCEMENT IN OSLO, NORWAY
CAME TWO YEARS AND A DAY SINCE A
TALIBAN ATTACK PROPELLED HER TO
PROMINENCE.
SHE'D BEGUN ADVOCATING EDUCATION
FOR GIRLS AT AGE 11.
IN A 2009 DOCUMENTARY, "NEW YORK
TIMES" CORRESPONDENT ADAM
ELLNICK PROFILED MALALA STRUGGLE
ELLNICK PROFILED MALALA
STRUGGLING IN PAKISTAN'S SWAT
VALLEY, WHERE HER SCHOOL WAS
SHUT DOWN BY THE TALIBAN.
>> IN THE WORLD, GIRLS ARE GOING
TO THEIR SCHOOLS FREELY.
AND THERE IS NO FEAR.
BUT IN SWAT, WHEN WE GO TO
SCHOOL WE ARE VERY AFRAID OF
TALIBAN.
HE WILL KILL US.
HE WILL THROW ACID ON OUR FACE.
HE CAN DO ANYTHING.
>> THEY CANNOT STOP ME.
>> Sreenivasan: THE TALIBAN
THREATS TURNED TO ACTION ON
OCTOBER 9, 2012, WHEN MASKED
GUNMEN BOARDED MALALA'S SCHOOL
BUS AND SHOT HER IN THE HEAD.
SHE WAS FLOWN TO BIRMINGHAM,
ENGLAND FOR MULTIPLE OPERATIONS,
BUT SHE EVENTUALLY MADE A FULL
RECOVERY AND, WITH HER FAMILY,
SETTLED THERE.
LAST MONTH, SHE TOLD THE
NEWSHOUR SHE HAS NO REGRETS
ABOUT THE CHOICE SHE MADE TO
SPEAK OUT.
>> AT THAT TIME, I HAD REALLY
TWO OPTIONS.
ONE WAS TO REMAIN SILENT AND
WAIT TO BE KILLED.
AND THEN THE SECOND WAS TO SPEAK
UP AND THEN BE KILLED.
AND I CHOSE THE SECOND ONE,
BECAUSE I DIDN'T WANT TO FACE
THE TERRORISM FOREVER.
>> Sreenivasan: IRONICALLY, THE
ATTACK THAT WAS MEANT TO SILENCE
MALALA, THRUST HER INTO A GLOBAL
SPOTLIGHT.
IN THE TWO YEARS SINCE, SHE'S
CAMPAIGNED FOR WOMEN'S RIGHTS
AND UNIVERSAL ACCESS TO
EDUCATION, PENNED HER OWN MEMOIR
AND CREATED HER OWN CHARITY.
SHE ALSO DELIVERED AN
IMPASSIONED APPEAL TO A YOUTH
ASSEMBLY AT THE UNITED NATIONS.
>> LET US PICK UP.
LET US PICK UP OUR BOOKS AND OUR
PENS.
THEY ARE OUR MOST POWERFUL
WEAPONS.
ONE CHILD, ONE TEACHER, ONE BOOK
AND ONE PEN CAN CHANGE THE
WORLD.
EDUCATION IS THE ONLY SOLUTION.
>> Sreenivasan: TODAY, IN
PAKISTAN, PEOPLE FROM ALL WALKS
OF LIFE CELEBRATED NEWS OF THE
PEACE PRIZE.
>> AS PAKISTANIS, THIS IS A
GREAT HONOR FOR US THAT A
YOUNGSTER, A YOUNG GIRL, GOT
THIS AWARD BECAUSE OF HER
BRAVERY, BECAUSE OF THE COURAGE
THAT SHE DISPLAYED.
>> SHE CAN BE PRESENTED TO OUR
NEW GENERATION, ESPECIALLY WOMEN
AND YOUNG GIRLS, AS A BEACON AND
AN INSPIRATION FOR THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT AMONG SOME
PAKISTANIS, RUMORS STILL SWIRL
THAT THE ATTACK ON HER LIFE WAS
STAGED AND THAT SHE IS A PUPPET
OF THE WEST.
TARIQ KHATTACK, EDITOR OF THE
"PAKISTAN OBSERVER," GAVE VOICE
TO THAT VIEW ON THE B.B.C.
NEWSHOUR TODAY.
>> SHE IS A GIRL.
A NORMAL, USELESS TYPE OF A
GIRL.
THAT'S IT.
WHATEVER SHE SAYS, OR SHE HAS
WRITTEN OR IS ATTRIBUTED TO HER,
IT'S THE CRAFTSMANSHIP OF HER
FATHER OR SOME HIRED
PROFESSIONAL WRITERS.
SHE IS NOTHING SPECIAL.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR HER PART,
MALALA APPEARS UNFAZED BY SUCH
CRITICISM, AS SHE TOLD THE
NEWSHOUR'S MARGARET WARNER LAST
YEAR.
>> SOME PAKISTANIS SAY YOU'VE
SHAMED THEIR COUNTRY, OR THAT
YOU'RE AN AGENT OF WESTERN
INTERESTS WHO WANT TO UNDERMINE
PAKISTAN, OR ISLAM.
HOW DOES THAT MAKE YOU FEEL,
WHEN YOU'RE OUT HERE FIGHTING
THIS FIGHT?
>> THE FIRST THING IS THAT IT'S
ONE'S RIGHT TO EXPRESS HIS
FEELING OR HER FEELINGS.
WHEN I LOOK AT THE GROUP THAT
SPEAK AGAINST ME IN PAKISTAN, OR
ANYWHERE, IT'S A VERY SMALL
GROUP, A VERY TINY GROUP.
I MUST LOOK AT THE MILLIONS OF
PEOPLE, I MUST LOOK AT THE
SUPPORT OF PEOPLE WHO RAISE THE
BANNERS OF "I AM MALALA" AND WHO
ARE STILL SUPPORTING ME.
SO I THINK I MUST NOT LOSE HOPE,
AND I MUST NOT LOOK AT THE SMALL
GROUP.
>> Sreenivasan: MEANWHILE, THE
MAN WHO'LL SHARE THE PEACE
PRIZE, KAILASH SATYARTHI, IS FAR
LESS KNOWN TO THE WORLD THAN
MALALA.
BUT HE WAS NO LESS OVERJOYED
TODAY, WHEN HE GOT THE NEWS IN
NEW DELHI.
>> IT IS NOT JUST AN HONOR FOR
ME, IT'S AN HONOR FOR ALL THOSE
WHO ARE FIGHTING CHILD LABOR
GLOBALLY.
I MAY NOT BE KNOWING THEM BUT
THERE ARE MANY PEOPLE WHO ARE
SACRIFICING THEIR TIME AND THEIR
LIFE FOR THE CAUSE OF CHILD
RIGHTS AND I WOULD LIKE TO THANK
AND CONGRATULATE ALL OF THEM
BECAUSE IT IS SYMBOLIC FOR ME.
>> Sreenivasan: STARTING IN
1980, THE NOW 60-YEAR-OLD
SATYARTHI HAS BECOME A LEADING
VOICE AGAINST CHILD SLAVERY AND
THE EXPLOITATION OF CHILDREN FOR
FINANCIAL GAIN.
HE'S LED PEACEFUL DEMONSTRATIONS
TO RAISE AWARENESS, AND HELPED
RESCUE SOME 75,000 CHILD
LABORERS.
LIKE MALALA, HE TOO HAS BEEN
PHYSICALLY ATTACKED FOR HIS
ACTIVISM.
LAST YEAR, NEWSHOUR SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT FRED DE SAM LAZARO
JOINED SATYARTHI AS HE CONDUCTED
A RESCUE RAID FOR UNDERAGE
WORKERS IN DELHI, HE LAMENTED IN
AN INTERVIEW THE STATUS OF SOME
OF HIS COUNTRY'S YOUNG.
>> YOU CAN BUY A CHILD FOR A
LESSER PRICE THAN AN ANIMAL.
THE BUFFALOES AND COWS ARE MUCH
MORE EXPENSIVE THAN BUYING A
CHILD TO WORK FULL-TIME AND FOR
THE WHOLE OF HIS LIFE.
>> Sreenivasan: SATYARTHI
ESTIMATES SOME 60 MILLION
CHILDREN ACROSS INDIA ARE FORCED
TO WORK IN UNSAFE CONDITIONS,
INCLUDING MANY DOING SO TO
SUPPORT THEIR IMPOVERISHED
FAMILIES.
IN CHOOSING LAUREATES FROM INDIA
AND PAKISTAN, THE NOBEL
COMMITTEE ALSO SIGNALED  ITS
WISH TO EASE LONG-STANDING
TENSIONS BETWEEN THE TWO
COUNTRIES.
>> THE COMMITTEE REGARDS IT AS
AN IMPORTANT POINT FOR A HINDU
AND A MUSLIM, AN INDIAN AND A
PAKISTANI, TO JOIN IN A COMMON
STRUGGLE FOR EDUCATION AND
AGAINST EXTREMISM.
>> Sreenivasan: INDIA AND
PAKISTAN HAVE FOUGHT THREE WARS
SINCE 1947, AND THE NOBEL
ANNOUNCEMENT FOLLOWED FOUR DAYS
OF FIGHTING IN DISPUTED
KASHMIR, THE WORST IN MORE THAN
A DECADE.
TODAY, MALALA SAID SHE AND
SATYARTHI HOPE TO PROMOTE PEACE
BETWEEN THEIR NATIONS BY
INVITING THEIR PRIME MINISTERS
TO THE NOBEL AWARDS CEREMONY,
DECEMBER 10.
>> Woodruff: JOINING ME NOW TO
DISCUSS THE WINNERS AND THEIR
CAUSES IS GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON,
AUTHOR OF "THE DRESSMAKER OF
KHAIR KHANA" AND DEPUTY DIRECTOR
OF THE COUNCIL ON FOREIGN
RELATIONS WOMEN AND FOREIGN
POLICY PROGRAM.
GAYLE, THIS MORNING WHEN YOU
OPENED UP THE PAPERS, THERE WERE
HUGE PICTURES OF MA LA-LA AND
THEN MENTION OF THE OTHER GUY.
SO LET'S START TALKING FIRST THE
WORK THAT MR. SATYARTHI'S DONE.
HOW SIGNIFICANT HAS IT BEEN AND
HAS IT CHANGED POLICY IN INDIA?
>> I THINK IT HAS BEEN VERY
SIGNIFICANTND
UNDERAPIATED,
UNDERLY-SOURCED AND UNDER-SEEN.
YOU TALK ABOUT SOMEBODY WHO
SAVED 80,000 CHILDREN BY
CONSERVATIVE ESTIMATE.
SOMEONE WHO DEDICATED HIS CAREER
STARTING WHEN HE WAS A YOUNG
PERSON HIMSELF, SAW A CHILD WHO
COULDN'T GO TO SCHOOL AND ASKED
WHY.
HOWNLTS DO WE WALK BY PEOPLE WHO
DON'T HAVE OPPORTUNITIES LIKE WE
DO AND ASK WHY.
HE'S TRYING TO RAISE VOICES OF
PEOPLE WHO HAVEN'T BEEN HEARD OR
SEEN AND HAVEN'T OCCUPIED THE
GLOBAL STAGE.
>> Sreenivasan: HE'S TRYING TO
RAISE AWARENESS OF ALL THE
PEOPLE WORKING ON THIS.
HOW SIGNIFICANT OF A PROBLEM IS
CHILD LABOR AND CHILD
TRAFFICKING AROUND THE WORLD?
>> IT IS COMPLETELY MASSIVE IN
NUMBERS AND ALSO WIDELY
UNDERREPORTED.
SO GETTING A SCALE OF A SENSE OF
HOW LARGE THE NUMBERS ARE IS
ACTUALLY DIFFICULT.
ABOUT 27% OF LABOR TRAFFICKING
VICTIMS ARE SAID TO BE CHILDREN.
MANY OF THEM GIRLS.
AND HE REALLY HAS SPOKEN UP FOR
PEOPLE AND VICTIMS.
PEOPLE ON THE STREETS.
PEOPLE YOU DON'T SEE WORKING
INSIDE FACTORIES YOU DON'T KNOW
ABOUT WHO ARE WELL UNDER AGE 18,
OFTEN UNDER AGE 15 AND WHO WORK
FOR NO WAGES IN THE DARK, WITH
NO ACCESS TO EDUCATION, WITH
NOBODY WATCHING.
>> LET'S TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
MALALA.
SHE'S APPLAUDED FOR HER WORK
AROUND THE WORLD BUT IT GETS
COMPLICATED WHEN YOU GET CLOSE
TO PAKISTAN AND HOW THE PEOPLE
THERE FEEL ABOUT IT.
>> THAT HAS BEEN DISCUSSED A
LOT.
EVER SINCE SHE STURTED TO BLOG
FOR THE BBC.
THE QUESTION IS, AS SHE SAID,
HOW MANY PEOPLE HAVE APPRECIATED
HER METHOD.
SHE HAS SPOKEN FOR GIRLS DENIED
THE CLASSROOM SIMPLY BECAUSE
THEY ARE GIRLS AND SHE DARED TO
SPEAK UP IN THE FACE OF VIOLENCE
AND SHE DID THAT WELL BEFORE SHE
WAS SHOT AT CLOSE RANGE.
THAT'S ONLY WHEN THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY PAID
ATTENTION TO HER.
LONG BEFORE THAT, FOLKS IN
PAKISTAN WERE PAYING ATTENTION,
TALKING ABOUT WHAT SHE WAS
SAYING THAT EVERYONE DESERVES TO
BE IN THE CLASSROOM, REGARDLESS
OF WHERE THEY LIVE.
>> Sreenivasan: HAS HER PLIGHT
AND RESILIENCE FROM IT INCREASED
THE PLIGHT OF EDUCATION OF GIRLS
IN PAKISTAN?
>> THEY WANTED TO MAKE HER A
VICTIM BUT INSTEAD THEY GAVE HER
A LOUDER VOICE.
SHE USED THE FACT THAT WESTERN
MEDIA HAS REALLY FOCUSED ON HER
STORY WHICH IS BOTH A TRAGIC AND
INCREDIBLE STORY OF THE HUMAN
SPIRIT, TO BASICALLY NOT PUT A
SPOTLIGHT ONLY HER OWN STORY BUT
ON SO MANY GIRLS WHO WILL NEVER
GET A CHANCE TO SIT IN A
CLASSROOM.
ONE IN THREE WILL BE MARRIED
BEFORE AGE 18 AND ONE IN NINE
BEFORE AGE 15.
SHE TALKED ABOUT CHILDHOOD
MARRIAGES AND VIOLENCE AGAINST
CHILDREN.
TALKING ABOUT GIRL CHILDREN
CANNOT GO TO SCHOOL, SOMETHING
THE WORLD SHOULD NOT TOLERATE.
SHE FRAMED IT AS A SECURITY,
PROSPERITY AND STABILITY ISSUE
AS WELL AS AN ISSUE OF RIGHTS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHY IS SHE
ABLE TO GET THROUGH IN SUCH A
CROWDED MEDIA ATMOSPHERE?
BESIDES HER TRAGEDY, WHAT DO WE
FIND RESONATES ABOUT HER
MESSAGE?
>> SHE HAS AN INCREDIBLE STORY
AND IS POWERFULLY ELOQUENT
BEYOND HER YEARS.
SHE ALSO IS PART OF A UNIVERSE
WHICH LOVES HEROISM AND SHE'S
OCCUPIED THE STAGE THE WORLD HAS
GIVEN HER AND SAYS THIS IS NOT
ABOUT ME, THIS IS NOT MALALA
YOUSAFZAI, THIS IS FOR ALL THE
OTHER CHILDREN WHO WON'T BE
HEARD.
I SPENT SO MUCH TIME IN
AFGHANISTAN WITH FATHERS WHO
DARED SEND THEIR GIRLS TO
SCHOOLS AND GIRLS WHO WENT TO
SCHOOL DESPITE THE THREATS AND
VIOLENCE.
ALL THOSE FIND A CHAMPION IN
HER.
THAT MAKES HER DIFFERENT.
SHE IS THE BEST OF A HUMAN
SPIRIT AND IN A MEDIA AREA WHICH
LOVES MYTHMAKING AND SHE FOUND A
WAY TO SAY YOU CAN TAKE MYSTER
AND AMPLIFY IT BUT I'M GOING TO
TELL YOU WHAT IT MEANS.
>> Sreenivasan: GAYLE TZEMACH
LEMMON, THANKS SO MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: BACK IN 2008, FEW
TRAVELERS HAD HEARD OF A NEW
START-UP CALLED "AIR B-AND-B."
ITS CURRENT VALUE IS SAID TO BE
ABOUT $10 BILLION.
NOW OTHERS ARE COPYING "AIR B-
AND-B" BUSINESS MODEL, PART OF
AN EMERGING SECTOR OF THE
ECONOMY THAT'S TAKING ADVANTAGE
OF TECHNOLOGY AND PEER-TO-PEER
CONSUMER SERVICES.
OUR ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT,
PAUL SOLMAN, LOOKS AT THE GOOD
AND THE BAD, PART OF HIS ONGOING
REPORTING "MAKING SENSE OF
FINANCIAL NEWS."
>> Reporter: LAST WEEK, WE
REPORTED ON UBER, A SMARTPHONE
APP THAT ALLOWS PASSENGERS TO
SUMMON FREELANCERS DRIVING THEIR
OWN CARS.
BUT RIDE SHARING IS JUST PART OF
A FAST-GROWING PHENOMENON.
THE SO-CALLED "SHARING ECONOMY,"
IT'S MAIN ATTRACTIONS --
>> EFFICIENT USE OF CAPITAL
ASSETS OF NEIGHBORS.
>> Reporter: PEAK EFFICIENT IS
OF ECONOMY, PUTTING IDLE
RESOURCING TO WORK, LIKE A CAR,
OR YOUR OWN IDLE TIME.
COOK A MEAL FOR STRANGERS OR
WORK A FREELANCE GIG IN YOUR
DOWN TIME.
AND HOW ABOUT THE EMPTY SPACE IN
YOUR HOUSE?
THE APP DOG VACA LETS YOU RENT
IT OUT TO BORED CANINES.
ONE OF THE MOST POPULAR SHARING
PLATFORMS EXTENDS THAT IDEA TO
HUMANS -- AIRBNB.
NOW TURNING THE HOSPITALITY
INDUSTRY ON ITS HEAD.
WHAT'S IT LIKE TO CONSUME IDLE
RESOURCES?
WE DECIDED TO BOOK A ROOM ON A
FARM IN NORTHWESTERN
MASSACHUSETTS.
OUT BACK, ARTIST JANICE SORENSON
HAS BUILT A LITERAL AIRBNB, A
TREE HOUSE.
THE STAIRS WERE SOMETHING OF A
CHALLENGE, BUT INSIDE IT WAS
SWEET.
DEFINITELY A ROOM WITH A VIEW.
WORKING FOR GUEST AND HOST
ALIKE.
>> WE HAVE TWO KIDS IN COLLEGE,
AND IT'S A HUGE EXPENSE FOR US,
AND I THOUGHT TO MYSELF, WHAT
ARE MY ASSETS?
THIS BEAUTIFUL HOME AND OUR
BEAUTIFUL PROPERTY.
THIS IS ONE OF MY GREATEST
ASSETS.
>> Reporter: AND THE NUMBER IS
THE TREE HOUSE WHICH SHE RENTS
OUT AT $80 A NIGHT.
UNHEATED AND A BIT CHILLY THIS
TIME OF THE YEAR, BUT BRACING AS
WAS BREAKFAST THE NEXT MORNING
IN THE MAIN HOUSE.
A VERY UTILITARIAN, SHARING
ECONOMY EXPERIENCE.
THAT'S HOW SHE FELT, SHARING.
>> I NEVER FEEL LIKE I'M WAITING
ON YOU.
I FEEL LIKE I'M ENTERTAINING A
HOUSE GUEST.
>> WHICH IS HOW I FELT, SO I
WOULD RATE HER HIGH ON THE
AIRBNB WEB SITE.
BUT THAT COULD HURT THE ONE
OFFICIAL BED AND BREAKFAST IN
TOWN JUST MINUTES DOWN THE ROAD,
THE BIRD'S NEST.
NEARLY A DOZEN AIRBNBs HAVE
SPRUNG UP IN TOWN IN THE PAST
YEARS AND BUSINESS FOR THE NEST
IS DOWN A THIRD.
ARTIST CINDY WEEKS.
>> I WAS WRITING OFF THE LOSS OF
BUSINESS TO AN ECONOMY CRASH AND
IT STARTED COMING BACK.
I THOUGHT, WHY HAS OUR ECONOMIC
DROPPED TO THE LEVEL WE COULD
ACTUALLY GET FOOD STAMPS.
>> WEEKS AND HER FAMILY MOVED TO
DETROIT 13 YEARS AGO,
REFURBISHING THE HOUSE AND
DECORATING WITH THE BOXES SHE
MAKES.
SHE SAYS AIRBNB AS UNFAIR,
UNREGULATED BIG BUSINESS.
>> AIRBNB IS THE WAL-MART MODEL
OF BED AND BREAKFAST AND KILLING
THE MOM AND POPs.
>> Reporter: AND THOUGH AIRBNB
JANET SORENSON IS A MOM, IT
STRAINED THEIR RELATIONSHIP.
>> IT'S STRAINED OUR
RELATIONSHIP.
IT'S VERY PERSONAL TO ME.
I'VE GIVEN UP EVERYTHING IN MY
LIFE AND IT'S KILLING US.
>> Reporter: WEEKS IS NOT
ALONE.
NOW THAT AIRBNB BOASTS OVER HALF
A MALL LISTINGS IN 102
COUNTRIES, BAKER FEARS THESE
LOW-COST, UNREGULATED
COMPETITORS WILL HASTEN A RACE
TO THE BOTTOM.
>> IF WE HAVE THE OLD FASHIONED
TRADITIONAL HOTEL WHO MEET THE
REGULATORY STANDARDS, IF THEY
CAN'T COMPETE WITH PEOPLE
RENTING OUT ROOMS THROUGH
AIRBNB, THEN YOU WILL SEE A LOT
OF THOSE PEOPLE WIND UP LOSING
THEIR JOB.
>> Reporter: HOLD ON, SAYS
N.Y.C.ROGIN.
THEY WILL EVENTUALLY FIND
ANOTHER.
>> THERE'S NO CLEAR WAY OF
PREDICTING PEOPLE WILL LOSE
THEIR JOBS IN THE LONG RUN.
THERE DEFINITELY WILL BE A SHIFT
IN THE SAME WAY 25, 30% OF THE
UNITED STATES WORKED IN
AGRICULTURE, TODAY IT'S LESS
THAN 1%.
>> Reporter: AS FOR REGULATION
SAYS NICK GROSSMAN WHOSE VENTURE
CAPITAL FIRM INVESTS IN SHARING
ECONOMY FIRMS, THEY'RE
SELF-REGULATED BY THE CUSTOMERS
WHO PUBLICLY RATE THEM.
>> THE MAJOR INVASION THAT ALL
THESE PLATFORMS HAVE CENTERED
IS THIS IDEA OF GENERATING TRUST
AND SAFETY.
IF YOU'RE A BAD ACTOR, WE'LL
KNOW.
IF YOU'RE A GREAT ACTOR, PEOPLE
WILL KNOW THAT, TOO.
>> Reporter: AMY SHERMAN IS A
CASE IN POINT.
SHE EARNED HIGH RATINGS DOING
DOZENS OF JOBS THROUGH TASK
RABBIT, A WEB SITE WHERE YOU
HIRE FREELANCERS TO DO JUST
ABOUT ANYTHING.
>> WHAT CAN I HELP YOU WITH
TODAY?
>> Reporter: I WANT TO CREATE
A SIGN THAT APPEALS TO PEOPLE'S
BETTER SELVES -- AT $25 AN HOUR,
I HIRED SHERMAN TO DESIGN A
PLEASE CLEAN UP SIGN TO THE OF
THE LITTERED TENNIS COURTS I
FREQUENT.
SHE WENT TO THE SIGN STORE AND
GOT ME A QUOTE.
>> ON CORRUGATED PLASTIC,
$21.50.
>> Reporter: BACK AT HOME,
TASK RABBIT HANDYMAN SHANE
WINDSTORM TRIED TO SILENCE A
BEEPING BACKUP BATTERY DRIVING
ME BAD.
>> VERIZON IN THEIR WISDOM
THOUGHT YOU MIGHT LIKE THE FACT
WHEN THE POWER GOES OUT YOU
WOULD BE AFFORDED EXTRA 8
MINUTES OF LAND LINE.
>> Reporter: WIND STORM IS
PAID BY HOUR.
TASK RABBIT EMPLOYEES, NOT,
THOUGH THE COMPANY IS MIDDLE
MAN.
WHAS THE MOST DEMEANING JOB?
>> YOU HAVE THE OPTION OF NOT
TAKING A JOB.
SPRING IS HERE.
CLEAN UP DOG POOP.
I HAVEN'T DONE THAT ONE.
HAD A GREAT PARTY LAST NIGHT.
FILLED UP A BUCKET.
CAN YOU COME AND EMPTY IT?
NOT TAKING IT.
>> Reporter: SO WORKING
FLEXIBILITY AND IDLE RESOURCES
PUT TO WORK TO SUPPOSEDLY MAKE
US ALL BETTER OFF.
DEAN BAKER LIKES THE IDEA BUT
MANY REGULATIONS ARE IN PLACE
FOR A REASON, HE SAYS, AND IN AN
INCREASINGLY UNEQUAL ECONOMY --
>> THE SERVICES CAN PUT PRESSURE
ON WAGES IN GENERAL.
IN MANY CASES YOU GET PEOPLE
WORKING FULL TIME OR NEAR FULL
TIME FOR THEM AND AS IT'S
STRUCTURED NOW THERE'S NO
GUARANTEED PAY RATE.
>> Reporter: SO ROGIN,
HOWEVER, A REVOLUTION IS
UNDERWAY AND THERE'S NO STOPPING
IT.
>> I FULLY EXPECT IN A DECADE,
MORE THAN HALF THE AMERICAN
WORKFORCE WILL NOT HAVE A
FULL-TIME JOB.
THEY WILL  DOING MULTIPLE
THINGS.
IN SOME SENSE --
>> Reporter: MAKING A LIVING
ON UBER, AI AIRBNB, TASK RABBITD
WHO KNOWS HOW MANY MORE.
>> Woodruff: WEST VIRGINIA IS A
STATE THAT SEES MORE THAN ITS
SHARE OF ECONOMIC HARDSHIP AND
TOUGH TIMES.
WHEN GALLUP COMPILED A LIST OF
THE MOST "MISERABLE" STATES IN
THE U.S. EARLIER THIS YEAR, WEST
VIRGINIA CAME IN NUMBER ONE.
LESS THAN HALF OF RESIDENTS
THERE DESCRIBE THEMSELVES AS
"THRIVING," AND THEY ALSO REPORT
LOW LEVELS OF LIFE EXPECTANCY
AND HOUSEHOLD INCOME.
BUT IN THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF
THE STATE, A  MOVEMENT IS
UNDERWAY TO CHANGE THAT, BY
CHANGING ITS APPROACH TO HEALTH
AND ITS PLACE IN THE COMMUNITY.
ONCE AGAIN TO HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: WILLIAMSON,
WEST VIRGINIA, HAS BEEN KNOWN
FOR A FEW THINGS OVER THE YEARS.
AS A COAL TOWN, A MOUNTAIN TOWN,
A FEUDING TOWN MADE FAMOUS BY
THE HATFIELDS AND McCOYS --
(HORN HONKING)
-- BUT WILLIAMSON, WESTGIHAS NE.
IN FACT, IT'S ONE OF THE LEAST
HEALTHY PLACES IN THE UNITED
STATES.
SO THE FACT THAT HUNDREDS OF
LOCALS ARE NOW SHOWING UP FOR
MONTHLY 5K RACES IS A SIGN OF
SOMETHING DEEPER HERE, AN
UNEXPECTED SHIFT TOWARD BETTER
HEALTH IN COAL COUNTRY.
DR. DINO BECKETT IS AMONG THOSE
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE NEW ENERGY.
WHEN HE MOVED BACK HOME AFTER
MEDICAL RESIDENCY, HIS MAIN GOAL
WAS EXPANDING BASIC HEALTHCARE
IN THIS PART OF THE STATE.
>> EVERYONE WAS WHY WOULD YOU GO
BACK TO SOUTHERN WEST VIRGINIA
TO PRACTICE MEDICINE?
I COULDN'T THINK OF A BETTER
PLACE TO BE BECAUSE IT WAS SUCH
A JOY TO GROW UP HERE AND HAVE
THESE PEOPLE LOOK OUT FOR YOU
AND HELP YOU WITH WHATEVER WAS
GOING ON IN YOUR LIFE.
>> Sreenivasan: MORE SO,
BECKETT THOUGHT HE COULD DO
SOMETHING ABOUT THE CHALLENGES
THEY FACED INCLUDING DIABETES,
HYPERTENSION IN BOTH THE STATE
AND THE NATION.
NEARLY A QUARTER OF THE CITY'S
3,000 RESIDENTS LIVE BELOW THE
FEDERAL POVERTY LINE, AND THE
MAKE MATTERS WORSE, THE COAL
INDUSTRY HAS BEEN SHEDDING JOBS
BY THE THOUSANDS IN RECENT
YEARS, WIPING OUT MUCH OF THE
AREA'S PRIVATE HEALTH INSURANCE
BASE.
>> MR. CHARLES, HOW ARE YOU
DOING?
>> Sreenivasan: BEFORE HE
FOUND DR. BECKETT, HERB CHARLES
WAS AMONG THE UNEMPLOYED COAL
MINERS WHO HAD SIMPLY STOPPED
GOING TO THE DOCTOR.
HIS FAMILY QUALIFIED FOR
MEDICAID LIKE MANY IN THIS AREA,
BUT FOREST TIME, HE COULDN'T
FIND A PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIAN
WHO WOULD ACCEPT IT.
BECKETT'S FIRST IDEA TO FILL THE
GROWING HEALTH GAP WAS TO OPEN A
FREE CLINIC.
>> WE HAD IT ONCE A MONTH AND
BECAME INUNDATED WITH PATIENTS
WHO DIDN'T HAVE INSURANCE SO WE
DECIDED TO HAVE IT MORE
FREQUENTLY.
>> Sreenivasan: THAT WASN'T
NEAR ENOUGH EITHER.
EVENTUALLY, HE MET UP WITH
MONICA AND SALINE WHO WORK WITH
A CONSULTING COMPANY CALLED THE
RIGHT CHOICE NETWORK.
>> THAT GOES IN THE SINK, HONEY.
>> Sreenivasan: THEY TRAVEL IN
AN R.V. WITH THEIR TWO LITTLE
GIRLS HELPING PEOPLE LIKE
WILLIAMSON FIND FEDERALLY
QUALIFIED HEALTH CENTERS OR,
MORE SIMPLY, CLINICS WHO TREAT
PEOPLE REGARDLESS OF THEIR
INSURANCE STATUS USUALLY IN
LOW-INCOME COMMUNITIES.
THESE CENTERS RECEIVED A BIG
FINANCIAL BOOST UNDER THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
UNDER NIECE AND SANDOVAL'S
APPLICATION, ONE CAME TO
WILLIAMSON, IT CHANGED THE GAME.
>> INSTEAD OF HAVING PROGRAMS
THAT ARE COMING AND GOING AND
DEPENDING ON GRANT FUNDING, BY
ROLLING THEM UNDER THE HEALTH
UMBRELLA AND USING FEDERAL
FUNDING AND REVENUE GENERATION
TO SUSTAIN THE PRARNLINGS IT
SUSTAINED THE PROGRAMS AND
EFFORTS INTO THE FUTURE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE WILLIAMS
HEALTH AND WELLNESS OPENED
EARLIER THIS YEAR WITH 13 STAFF
MEMBERS WHO SEES ANYONE WHO
COMES IN, FROM ELDERLY TO
NEWBORN'S.
BUT THE CENTER'S MOST AGGRESSIVE
FIGHT IS TAKING PLACE OUTSIDE
THESE WALLS.
VICKY HATFIELD IS A NURSE
PRACTITIONER WITH THE DIABETES
COATS THE OUTREACH WING OF THE
OPERATION.
>> IF YOU CAN'T TREAT DIABETES
AS A PRACTITIONER IN SOUTHERN
WEST VIRGINIA YOU'RE GOING TO
MOVE BECAUSE YOU'RE GOING TO SEE
A LOT OF IT.
>> Reporter: SHE SAYS NEARLY
14% OF THE LOCAL POPULATION IS
DIABETIC.
>> YOU LOOK SO PRETTY.
>> Reporter: HATFIELD AND HER
COLLEAGUES VISIT THE MOST
WORRISOME OF THE PATIENTS LIKE
JANETTE HUNTER DIRECTLY IN THEIR
HOMES.
>> CAN YOU TELL ME WHERE I'M
TOUCHING?
>> Reporter: THEY CHECK VITAL
SIGNS, MONITOR INTAKE AND OFFER
PRACTICAL ADVICE ON DAY-TO-DAY
HABITS.
>> IT HAS TO BE MORE THAN
MEDICINE.
>> Sreenivasan: HUNTER'S BLOOD
SUGAR HAS STABILIZED FROM
CONSISTENTLY HIGH TO NEAR
PERFECT.
>> KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK!
ORQ, THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: THE NEXT STEP
IS TO BOOST THE ECONOMY AND
INCREASE ACCESS TO HEALTHIER
FOOD.
BUT THAT PART OF THE PLAN IS
STILL UNDER CONSTRUCTION,
LITERALLY.
REMEMBER HERB CHARLES THE
UNEMPLOYED COAL MINER?
JUST THE OTHER DAY, HE WAS HIRED
FULL TIME BY A CONSTRUCTION
COMPANY CURRENTLY RESTORING AN
OLD BUILDING DOWNTOWN.
WHEN THE DUST CLEARS, THE
SO-CALLED HEALTH INNOVATION HUB,
OOH OFF SHOOT OF THE HEALTH
CENTER, IS A SPACE
ENTREPRENEURS TO FIND SPACE THEY
NEED TO OPEN BUSINESS.
LIKE THE NEW RESTAURANT 34-8
THAT OPENED ITS DOORS WITH
SUPPORT FROM THE HEALTH AND
WELLNESS TEAM, THEY PLAN TO
SERVE HEALTHY FOOD.
SOME OF IT FROM THE HEALTH
COALITION' NEW COMMUNITY GARDEN
AND PERHAPS SOME DAY FROM THE
FARM BEING DEVELOPED ON A
RECLAIMED STRIP MINE SEVERAL
MILES AWAY.
>> RIGHT HERE IS WHAT YOU WILL
HELP US DESIGN TORE GROWING
SPECIFIC FOODS FOR FARMER'S
MARKET.
>> Sreenivasan: ERIC SAYS IT
ALL SHOWS A NEW ECONOMY IS
EMERGING IN THE REGION.
>> WE'RE LOOKING FORWARD TO A
DAY THAT IS COMING SOON TO WHERE
CENTRAL APPALACHIA CAN LOOK OUT
TO THE REST OF THE UNITED STATES
AND SAY, CATCH UP WITH US, WE'RE
THE INNOVATORS.
>> Sreenivasan: THAT'S A TOUGH
SELL FOR MANY LOCALS.
YOUR FIRST?
>> MY FIRST.
>> Sreenivasan: FRED AND DONNA
LIVED IN THE AREA THEIR ENTIRE
LIVES.
THEY WATCHED AS THE ECONOMY
COLLAPSED, FRED LOST HIS JOB IN
THE MINUS AND THE CHILDREN MOVED
AWAY.
THEY'RE SKEETICLE SUSTAINABLE
WILLIAMSON CAN REPAIR WHAT HAS
BEEN LOST.
>> I'M AFRAID IT CAN'T BE
BECAUSE THE WAY THE ECONOMY IS
GOING, I'M AFRAID IT'S GOING TO
BECOME A GHOST TOWN.
I WOULD HATE TO SEE THAT HAPPEN
BECAUSE WE'LL LOSE A LOT.
>> Sreenivasan: IT'S NOT HARD
TO FIND OTHERS WHO AGREE, BUT
THERE SEEMS TO BE JUST AS MANY
WILLIAMSON RESIDENTS GETTING
CAUGHT UP IN THE OPTIMISM.
ON THIS SATURDAY, THERE'S A NEW
FARMERS MARKET OVERFLOWING WITH
LOCALLY-GROWN PRODUCE, LIVELY
MUSIC, EVEN A BELLY DANCING
TROUPE.
ALMOST EVERYONE AGREES THE NEW
ENERGY IS A WEL WELCOME SIGHT, E
TRICK WILL BE TO KEEP IT MOVING,
THEY SAY.
>> Woodruff: THIS WEEK SAW THE
SUPREME COURT MAKE NEWS ON SAME-
SEX MARRIAGES AND VOTING RIGHTS
AND THE POLITICIANS RESPOND TO
THE FIRST CASE OF EBOLA IN THE
UNITED STATES.
FOR THAT AND MORE WE TURN TO THE
ANALYSIS OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS,
SYNDEDNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND NEW YORK TIMES
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
WELL COME, GENTLEMEN.
SO, MARK, THE SUPREME COURT MADE
WAVES THIS WEEK IN A WAY BY NOT
MAKING WAVES.
THEY SAID WE'RE NOTE GETTING
INVOLVED, WE'RE NOT GOING TO
INTERFERE WITH THE COURTS AROUND
THE COUNTRY WHO HAVE SAID
THEY'RE GOING TO PUT A STOP TO
THESE BANS ON SAME-SEX MARRIAGE.
IN FACT, JUST IN THE LAST FEW
HOURS, THE SUPREME COURT ISSUED
ANOTHER STATEMENT LIKE THIS ON
NORTH CAROLINA.
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF ALL THIS?
>> JUDY, I'VE NEVER SEEN AN
ISSUE CHANGE SO INTENSE IN MY
TO REVIEW, 2004, PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGN, THE REPUBLICANS
BACKING PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH
PUT THE BALLOT IN QUESTION IN
ELEVEN STATES OUTLAWING SAME-SEX
MARRIAGE.
IT PASSED OVERWHELMINGLY.
THE KEY WAS OHIO.
THE OBJECTIVE WAS SIMPLE, TO
GENERATE LARGER VOTER TURNOUT IN
MORE RURAL AND CONSERVATIVE
AREAS.
IT WORKED IN OHIO AND GEORGE W.
BUSH WAS REELECTED BY THE VOTES
IN OHIO.
2008, EVERY DEMOCRATIC
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE WENT ON
RECORD THAT HE OR SHE WAS FOR
MARRIAGE BETWEEN A MAN AND A
WOMAN.
2012, JOE BIDEN GOT IN TROUBLE
BY EMBRACING FOR THE FIRST TIME
SAME-SEX MARRIAGE.
BUT THE MEMBERS ARE DAUNTING.
AMONG YOUNG REPUBLICANS, 61% OF
REPUBLICANS, YOUNG REPUBLICANS
UNDER THE AGE OF 30 ARE IN FAVOR
OF SAME-SEX MARRIAGE.
I MEAN, THE ISSUE -- THE TRAIN'S
LEFT THE STATION AND IT'S BEEN A
SEA CHANGE IN DIFFERENCE OF
OPINION.
>> Woodruff: COURTS ARE JUST
BACKING OUT OF THE PICTURE.
>> I SORT OF APPLAUD IT.
SOMETIMES YOU JUST LET THE
COUNTRY HAVE ITS WAY AND YOU
DON'T TRY TO DETERMINE THE SHAPE
OF THE COUNTRY, YOU SORT OF
MODESTLY STEP BACK AND LET THE
COUNTRY FIGURE OUT WHAT IT
BELIEVES.
I BELIEVE THEY'RE DOING THE
RIGHT THING IN WITHDRAWING AND
NOT GETTING INVOLVED.
QUITE FRANKLY, I BELIEVE THEY'VE
LEARNED THE LESSON WITH RO
ROE v. WADE.
THEY HAD AN ISSUE EVOLVING, THE
COURT LAID DOWN A BRICK WALL AND
POLERRIZED AND FROZE THE DEBATE.
WHEREVER YOU STOOD ON THE ISSUE,
THAT DISTORTED DISCUSSIONS EVER
SINCE.
SO BY STAYING OUT OF THE WAY
THEY'RE LETTING THE COUNTRY HAVE
ITS DISCUSSION.
>> Woodruff: SO THAT MEANS THE
COURT'S SPOKEN AND WE'LL NOT
HEAR ABOUT THE ISSUE?
>> WE'LL HEAR IT.
THE DEBATE IN 2014, IT WILL BE A
QUESTION.
THE QUESTION IS IN 2016, THE
REPUBLICAN NOMINATING PROCESS,
BECAUSE THERE ARE FIRM
BELIEVERS, PEOPLE WHO BELIEVE
DEVOUTLY AND PASSIONATELY THAT
MARRIAGE IS ONLY BETWEEN ONE MAN
AND ONE WOMAN AND THAT SOMEHOW
IT'S COMPROMISING WHAT THEY
CONSIDER THE SACRAMENT AND
INSTITUTION OF MARRIAGE.
AND THEY ARE VERY ACTIVE, MANY
OF THEM, IN REPUBLICAN
NOMINATING PROCESS.
THERE WILL BE ONE OR MORE
CANDIDATES WHO TAKE THAT
POSITION.
>> THERE WILL BE SIGNS OF THAT.
SCOTT WALKER, THE GOVERNOR OF
WISCONSIN, SAID, OKAY, IT'S
OVER.
HE WAS HAPPY TO BRUSH IT OFF.
I THINK A LOT OF CANDIDATES JUST
DON'T WANT TO DEAL WITH IT.
TED CRUZ CAME OUT AND WAS MUCH
MORE OPPOSED.
>> HUCKABEE.
REALLY STRONG.
SO I THINK WE CAN SEE,
ESPECIALLY IOWA, IT WILL BE AN
ISSUE AND I WILL BE FASCINATED
TO SEE HOW JEB BUSH AND CHRIS
CHRISTIE DANCE TO THIS ONE IF
THEY RUN.
>> Woodruff: THE OTHER ISSUE
THE COURT DECLARED THEMSELVES ON
IS VOTER IDENTIFICATION.
THEY BASICALLY BLOCKED A TIGHTER
VOTER I.D. LAW IN THE STATE OF
WISCONSIN.
SO DO YOU HAVE A SENSE THAT THIS
MAKES A DIFFERENCE, THAT OTHER
STATES WILL BE RELUCTANT TO PASS
THESE LAWS BECAUSE OF WHAT THE
COURT DOES SOME.
>> I'M NOT SURE.
THIS IS SUCH AN ADMIRATION FOR
AMERICAN HISTORY, IF YOU THINK
OF IT.
ONLY WHITE MALE PROPERTY OWNERS
OVER 21 COULD VOTE WHEN THE
COUNTRY BEGAN, EXPANDED TO ALL
MALES AND EVEN NON-WHITES AND
EVENTUALLY WOMEN.
YOU KNOW, THEN IN 1965, JUDY,
THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT CAME AND
SAID THAT THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
HAS A RESPONSIBILITY TO MAKE
SURE THAT EVERYBODY CAN VOTE.
AND 96% OF REPUBLICAN SENATORS
VOTED FOR THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT.
ONLY 73% OF DEMOCRATS.
IT WAS A GREAT ISSUE.
WHAT HAPPENED IN 2010 WHEN
REPUBLICANS SWEPT ALL THE STATE
LEGISLATURES, THEY MADE IT
EASIER TO BUY A GUN AND TOUGH
TORE VOTE.
THIS WEEK, THE GOVERNMENT
ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE,
NON-PARTISAN RESEARCH FOUND IN A
STUDY THAT IT ACTUALLY LOWERED
THE TURNOUT IN TENNESSEE AND
KANSAS, TWO STATES STUDIED AMONG
MINORITY AND YOUNGER VOTERS.
I HATE TO SAY IT, BUT THAT WAS
THE OBJECTIVE OF THOSE PEOPLE
WHO PUSHED IT.
>> Woodruff: WHAT EFFECT DO
YOU SEE?
>> I HAD ASSUMED, LOOKING
ESPECIALLY AT THE NATIONAL
ELECTION RESULTS THAT IT HAD
THIS BACKFIRING EFFECT, THAT THE
VOTER I.D. MOBILIZED THE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN VOTERS THAT IT
SWAMPED AND WAS HARMFUL AND I
BELIEVE PEOPLE BELIEVED IT AFTER
THE 2012 ELECTION THAT IT
SUPPRESSED VOTES.
THE OTHER THING SAID IS NAT
THE -- THAT THE ASSERTION IS
THERE'S A LOT OF FRAUD.
IT'S NOT TRUE.
IT'S SCATTERED FRAUD.
THE IDEA THAT YOU NEED PICTURE
I.D.S TO COMBAT, IT'S JUST NOT
OUT THERE SO LEADS TO THE WORST
ASSERTION OF WHY THE LAWS ARE
BEING PASSED.
>> Woodruff: SENATE RACES,
THREE AND A HALF WEEKS LEFT,
MARK.
MAYBE SURPRISES DEVELOPING IN
SOUTH DAKOTA?
OTHER PLACES?
WHAT DO YOU SEE?
>> OWL OF THE CONVENTIONAL
WISDOM HAS BEEN THERE ARE THREE
DEMOCRATIC STATES THAT ARE GOING
TO.
GO THE REPUBLICAN WILL WIN
WEST VIRGINIA, MONTANA,
REPUBLICANS WILL WIN.
NOW ALL OF A SUDDEN, PRESSER
THREE TERMS IN THE SENATE, A
VIETNAM VETERAN.
NO MONEY.
HE'S SCRAMBLED THE RACE.
SO ALL OF A SUDDEN RICK WIRE, A
DEMOCRAT, THINKS HE HAS A CHANCE
AND MIKE MALONE S REPUBLICAN
GOVERNOR POSTING TO ELECTION AND
CORONATION FINDS HIMSELF IN A
RACE AND IT'S A REAL SIGHT.
>> Woodruff: MAY BE
INTERESTING AFTER ALL ON
ELECTION NIGHT.
>> MAY BE.
I STILL HAVE IT IN MY BONES THAT
IT'S GOING TO BE A TIE.
I LOOK AT IT AND, FIRST, IN THE
SOUTH DAKOTA RACE, WHAT PRESSER
IS DOING IS AMAZING, SHOULD BE
BE SALUTED.
>> Woodruff: IF THERE'S
COMEBACK.
>> THERE SHOULD BE A COMEBACK.
IT GETS HARDER FOR HIM FROM HERE
ON OUT BECAUSE HE'S A BIG PLAYER
AND THEY'RE GOING TO TURN THE
GUNS ON HIM.
I STILL THINK WE'RE IN RACE LIKE
2006 WHERE YOU HAVE AN UNPOPULAR
PRESIDENT WHERE AT THE END OF
THE DAY THE PEOPLE DECIDE LATE,
THEY TEND TO DECIDE AGAINST THE
PRESIDENT'S PARTY AND THE
CANDIDATES WHO HAVE APPROVAL
RATINGS OF UNDER 45%, WHICH IS A
LOT OF PEOPLE, EVEN KAY HAGAN,
THEY TEND NOT TO DO WELL BECAUSE
THE LATE COMERS TEND TO BENEFIT
THE OTHER PROPERTY.
IT FEELS PARALLELS THE
REPUBLICANS MAY HAVE A SURGE.
>> Woodruff: YOU FEEL IT COULD
BE A WAVE?
>> I DON'T KNOW HOW BIG A WAVE.
THERE'S A LOT OF BREAKERS.
I THINK IT FEELS LIKE THAT JUST
BECAUSE YOU LOOK AT THE
PRESIDENT'S APPROVAL NUMBER AND
A LOT OF THE DEMOCRATS, EVEN THE
INCUMBENTS, THEY'RE 40, 42, 45
IN APPROVAL AND HISTORICALLY
THOSE CANDIDATES HAVE NOT RISEN
TO 50 BY ELECTION DAY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT'S YOUR BET?
I THINK IT'S A DEPRESSING
YEAR.
IT'S A DISMAL CAMPAIGN.
IN 1994, EVEN DEMOCRATS HAD TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE REPUBLICANS
HAD A CONTRACT WITH AMERICA.
EVEN IN 2006, WHEN THE DEMOCRATS
SWEPT BACK IN, THERE WAS A
6-FOOT 2006.
I HAVE NO IDEA.
I HAVE NO IDEA WHAT THE
REPUBLICANS WILL DO IF THEY WIN.
IT'S AN ELECTION ABOUT WE WANT
TO WIN, IT'S WE WANT THE OTHER
GUY TO LOSE.
BEATING THE OPPOSITION IS MORE
IMPORTANT.
>> IT'S IDENTICAL.
IT'S RIGHT WING EXTREMISTS
SAYING, OH, YOU LIKE OBAMA.
IT'S NATIONWIDE, PAINT BY
NUMBERS.
>> Woodruff: SOME
CONSERVATIVES HAVE BEEN SAYING
THIS WEEK THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION HAS DROPPED THE
BALL ON THE FIGHT AGAINST EBOLA
TO KEEP IT OUT OF THE COUNTRY,
THERE'S NOT ENOUGH BEING DONE.
COULD THIS BECOME A POLITICAL
ISSUE BETWEEN NOW AND ELECTION
DAY?
>> OBVIOUSLY, I THINK SOME
REPUBLICANS ARE TRYING TO RAISE
IT IN CERTAIN CAMPAIGNS.
YOU KNOW, I THINK IT'S TOUGH TO
MAKE THE CASE.
I THINK THAT THE PRESIDENT AND
THE GOVERNMENT IS DOING FAR MORE
CONTRASTING WITH WHAT WE DID
WITH AIDS JUST A GENERATION AGO.
SHOULD WE BE DOING MORE?
IT'S KIND OF TOUGH WHEN YOU CUT
THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF HEALTH
BUDGET ON INFECTIOUS DISEASES,
AND IT REQUIRES COOPERATION AND
COLLABORATION WITH OTHER
COUNTRIES, WE'VE CUT BY A
QUARTER, REPUBLICANS   V SINCE
2010 THE CONTRIBUTION TO THE
WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION.
THERE'S NO QUESTION THERE'S A
CONCERN AND ANXIETY IN THE
COUNTRY.
>> ONE PERSON'S DIED HERE FROM
EBOLA, BUT IT PLAYS IN TO WE'VE
LOST CONTROL OF THE BORDERS, NOT
SECURE, AND A WAY TO REMIND
PEOPLE OF TERRORISM AND
IMMIGRATION.
I THINK THEY'RE PLAYING IT FOR
THAT RPASON.
WHETHER THERE'S ACTUALLY A
HEALTH SCARE ABOUT EBOLA IN THIS
COUNTRY, I FIND IT HARD TO
BELIEVE IT WOULD NOT BE
LEGITIMATE.
>> Woodruff: IN THE FEW
MINUTES WE HAVE LEFT, SHIFTING
GEARS, THERE WAS A MEMORIAL
SERVICE FOR JAMES BRADY TODAY,
PRESIDENT REAGAN'S WHITE HOUSE
PRESS SECRETARY, AN ARDENT GUN
CONTROL PERSON.
HE WAS MOTTSHOT IN THE HEAD IN
THE 1981 ATTEMPT ON PRESIDENT
REAGAN.
HE DIED IN AUGUST.
A NUMBER OF WASHINGTON HANDS WHO
KNEW AND WORKED WITH JIM BRADY
WAS HONORED TO BE AMONG THEM
PAID TRIBUTE TO JIM THIS
MORNING.
>> I ASKED HIM IF HE WAS STILL
BITTER.
HE PAUSED.
WELL, HE SAID, IT'S NOT CLASSY
TO BE BITTER, AND I TRY TO BE
CLASSY, AS YOU KNOW.
(CHUCKLE)
IS IT VERY MUCH OF AN EFFORT, I
ASKED?
HE ANSWERED, YES.
BUT HE MADE THAT EFFORT
VALIANTLY FOR 33 YEARS.
>> HE TURNED IT ALL INTO ACTION.
HI NOT ONLY REACHED OUT TO
SURVIVORS OF GUN VIOLENCE, BUT
HE REACHED OUT TO THE DISABLED
WHO NEEDED ENCOURAGEMENT AND
HOPE ON THE ROAD TO RECOVERY.
THE REASON WHY IT MATTERED SO
MUCH TO THEM, YOU COULD SEE IT
IN THEIR EYES, IT MATTERED
BECAUSE THEY KNEW HE KNEW.
THEY KNEW HE UNDERSTOOD.
HE LITERALLY HELPED HEAL.
HE GAVE HOPE.
>> Woodruff: DAVID YOU ARE TOO
YOUNG, YOU WEREN'T AROUND IN THE
REAGAN ADMINISTRATION.
MARK, YOU AND I WERE AROUND, TO
BE GENTLE ABOUT IT.
TALK ABOUT JIM BOEHEIM.
H -- TALK ABOUT JIMBRADY.
HE WAS A VERY SPECIAL GUY.
>> JIM WAS A SPECIAL GUY.
1974, IN WASHINGTON, THERE WAS A
CLASS REUNION WHERE REPUBLICANS
AND DEMOCRATS AND POLITICIANS
AND JOURNALISTS USED TO MEET AND
LAUGH AND TELL STORIES AND JIM
BRADY WAS SORT OF THE UNOFFICIAL
MAYOR OF THAT PLACE.
HE WAS A GREAT COMPANY.
WHAT I REMEMBER ABOUT JOE BIDEN,
JOE BIDEN KNEW HIM WELL BECAUSE
HE WAS THE PRESS SECRETARY FOR
JOE BIDEN'S DELEGATE FROM
DELAWARE BILL ROSS.
IN THE CAMPAIGN IN 1980, THE
REAGAN CAL PAIN WAS CHALLENGED.
THE POLLUTION ON AUTOMOBILES --
JIM BRADY WAS THE PRESS
SECRETARY OVER A PLANE, THEY'RE
FLYING OVER A SMALL FOREST FIRE
AND JIM SAYS, LOOK, KILLING
TREES, KILLING TREES!
HE WAS MAHE WAS INDISPENSABLE, E
AND GOOD AND WONDERFUL MAN.
>> Woodruff: ONE OF THE BEST
PRESS SECRETARIES IN THE WHITE
HOUSE EVER.
MARK SHIELDS, DAVID BROOKS, TWO
OF THE BEST THAT HAVE EVER BEEN
AT THE "NewsHour".
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, A NEW FILM
LOOKS AT A BRUTAL CIVIL WAR
THROUGH THE EYES OF THOSE WHO
WALKED THE WALK.
JEFFREY BROWN EXPLAINS.
>> YOU MUST BE PAMELA LOWEY FROM
FAITH CHALLENGES.
>> NO I'M FROM THE EMPLOYMENT
AGENCY.
I'M GOING TO HELP YOU FIND JOBS.
>> Brown: "THE GOOD LIE" TELLS
THE STORY OF THE "LOST BOYS" OF
SUDAN.
CHILDREN FORCED TO WANDER
HUNDREDS OR EVEN THOUSANDS OF
MILES TO ESCAPE VIOLENCE
ORPHANED BY THE 22-YEAR CIVIL
WAR THAT BEGAN IN 1983.
AND LEFT AND ESTIMATED TWO
MILLION DEAD AND DOUBLE THAT
NUMBER DISPLACED.
>> GREAT!
>> Brown: IT'S A FICTIONAL
ACCOUNT, STARRING REESE
WITHERSPOON, BUT ALSO SEVERAL OF
THE YOUNG MEN THEMSELVES, AND
FOLLOWS THEM TO THIS COUNTRY,
WHERE BEGINNING IN THE MID
1990'S SEVERAL THOUSAND WERE
BROUGHT INTO A STRANGE NEW LIFE.
>> WAS YOUR FATHER A CHIEF?
>> YES SOME PEOPLE WOULD SAY
THAT.
>> MAY WE VISIT WITH YOUR COW?
>> BE MY GUEST.
>> Brown: ACTOR GER DUANY MADE
THIS INCREDIBLE TRIP HIMSELF.
FROM A "LOST BOY" FORCED TO
SERVE AS A SOLDIER, TO A REFUGEE
CAMP AND THEN TO THE U.S.
I TALKED WITH HIM AND
SCREENWRITER MARGARET NAGLE, WHO
ORIGINATED THE PROJECT AND
WORKED FOR YEARS TO GET IT MADE.
>> I REALLY WANTED TO TELL THIS
STORY, BECAUSE IT WAS ABOUT
BROTHERS AND SISTERS SURVIVING,
AND IT WAS ABOUT THE VERY WORST,
AND THE VERY BEST OF HUMANITY TO
ME, AND AS A WRITER YOU'RE
ALWAYS SEARCHING FOR A WAY TO
GET THAT STORY OUT.
>> Brown: BUT WHAT WAS THAT
LIKE, THOSE YEARS OF NOT HAVING
A HOME, OF JUST TRYING TO STAY
ONE STEP AHEAD OF WAR?
>> IT WAS NOT A PLEASANT
FEELING, BUT I WAS LEARNING A
LOT, AND I WAS LEARNING ABOUT
WHO I AM, AND EVEN WHO I'VE
BECOME NOW, SO...
>> Brown: IN WHAT WAY?
>> I THINK, WELL, IT BROUGHT A
LOT OF TRANSFORMATION BECAUSE I
LEARNED HOW TO LIVE WITH NO
MOTHER AND FATHER, AND I LIVED,
I LEARNED HOW TO LIVE WITHOUT MY
OWN ACTUAL BROTHERS, AND I LIVED
FOR OTHER PEOPLE, I JUST MAKE MY
LIFE BETTER, OR I MAKE THEIR
LIFE BETTER, ONE OR THE OTHER.
>> Brown: I READ THAT YOU FELT
BEFORE YOU COULD GO AHEAD WITH
THIS, THAT YOU NEEDED THE KINDOE
ACTORS, BUT THE YOUNG MEN WHO
HAD ACTUALLY LIVED THROUGH THIS.
>> I WENT AROUND THE COUNTRY TO
THE VARIOUS LOST BOYS COMMUNITY,
AND TOLD THEM THE STORY I WAS
GOING TO TELL, EVERYTHING THAT I
COULD, SO THAT IT FELT REAL TO
THEM, AND THE IDEA WAS TO CREATE
A FUND, THE GOOD LIFE FUND, THAT
WE WOULD PUT MONEY INTO FOR THE
EDUCATION, AND FOR HUMANITARIAN
AID FOR THE LOST BOYS.
SO I WENT AND PITCHED THEM THE
STORY.
>> YOU PITCHED THEM THE STORY,
YOU MEAN YOU LITERALLY?
>> YEAH, YEAH, I SAID HERE'S THE
STORY I'M GOING TO TELL, AND
THEY HAD, THEY SIGNED ON.
>> I KNEW IT WAS GOING TO BE
CHALLENGING, AND IN MANY WAYS,
BUT THEN READING THE SCRIPT THAT
SHE HAD WRITTEN IS, IT WAS VERY,
THE TONE, THE LANGUAGE, YOU
KNOW, THE PEOPLE OF SOUTH SUDAN
IT'S WHAT DREW ME INTO THE WHOLE
THINGS.
I'VE NEVER BEEN ABLE TO TALK
ABOUT THIS, I TUCKED IT IN FOR A
LONG, LONG, TWO DECADES OF BEING
HERE IN AMERICA, SO SOMETHING
CAME UP AND THEN WHEN THE SCRIPT
CAME ACROSS I'M KIND OF
PREPARED, EMOTIONALLY, THAT I
WANTED TO OPEN MY STORY TO THE
WORLD.
>> Brown: YOU KNOW, I READ ABOUT
THE SAGA OF MAKING THIS FILM, IT
TOOK A LONG, LONG TIME, AND YOU
WONDER WHY IT TAKES SO LONG TO
MAKE A FILM LIKE THIS, OF COURSE
THEN YOU THINK, WELL, IT'S ABOUT
WAR IN AFRICA, IT'S KIND OF A
HARD STORY TO WATCH IN SOME
WAYS, IS THAT WHY?
>> HOLLYWOOD USED TO MAKE MOVIES
LIKE THIS, BUT IN THIS LAST
DECADE THEY'VE STOPPED MAKING
MOVIES LIKE THIS, AND IT WAS
HARD TO GET PEOPLE TO BELIEVE IN
THE STORY, TO ENGAGE WITH THE
STORY, AND ONCE PEOPLE ENGAGED
WITH THE STORY THEY ARE ALL LIT
UP, THEY ARE EXCITED, THEY ARE
PASSIONATE, AND IT'S THE KIND
OF, THIS, IT'S AN INTIMATE EPIC,
>> Brown: PARTLY, I MEAN, BEHIND
THE FILM IS A STORY OF HOW FILM
GETS MADE, RIGHT, AND WHICH
FILMS GET MADE, AND WHICH DON'T,
THAT'S BEEN YOUR LIFE.
>> YEAH.
>> YOU KNOW WHAT, THIS MOVIE
MAYBE HAD BEEN WAITING FOR ME TO
HEAL, AND REVISIT THE PAST THAT
I WAS LIVING.
>> Brown: IN REAL LIFE, DUANY
WAS BROUGHT TO DES MOINES.
IN THE FILM, HE AND THE OTHERS
COME TO KANSAS CITY.
THE MOVIE CAPTURES SOME OF THE
HUMOR OF CULTURAL DISCONNECTS:
>> I HAVE GREAT FAITH IN YOU,
YARDI.
>> YARDI, WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
>> IT IS A SPECIAL NAME FOR YOU
AND HAS GREAT CULTURAL
SIGNIFICANCE.
IT MEANS GREAT WHITE COW.
>> OKAY, WELL IT'S BETTER THAN A
LOT OF THINGS I'VE BEEN CALLED.
>> WE'RE VERY TOUGH PEOPLE,
AMERICANS, WE'RE CAPABLE OF
BEING SO KIND AND WONDERFUL, BUT
WE'RE HARD ON PEOPLE WHO ARE
DIFFERENT THAN WE ARE, SO ONE OF
THE THINGS THE FILM DOES IS
YOU'RE IN THE POINT OF VIEW OF
THESE BOYS AND TH THE WHOLE FIRY
FIVE MINUTES, YOU KNOW THEIR
BACKGROUND, YOU KNOW THEM
INTIMATELY, THEN THEY LAND IN
THE UNITED STATES AND WE SEE HOW
WE IN THE UNITED STATES SEE
PEOPLE LIKE THEM.
>> Brown: DO YOU REMEMBER THAT
TRANSITION, WHEN YOU FIRST
LANDED IN THE UNITED STATES, AND
WHAT THAT WAS LIKE?
>> VERY VIVID, YEAH.
I REMEMBER WHEN I LANDED HERE IN
1994, MAY 24TH, 1994, I WAS
ABOUT FIFTEEN YEARS OLD I JUST
ADMIT THAT IN THE BACK OF MY
HEAD LIKE I'M REALLY A LOST BOY
NOW.
>> I WAS LOST IN THIS WORLD.
>> Brown: AND WHAT ABOUT NOW?
>> NOW I THINK I'M LEADING THE
WORLD IN CHOICES.
SINCE I BECAME AN AMERICAN AND
I'M TRULY JUST LIKE ANY OTHER
AMERICAN KID, AN OPPORTUNITY
COMES MY WAY I JUST TRY TO
CAPITALIZE ON IT, OTHERWISE I'D
NEVER HAVE FIRE TO PURSUE
MOVIES, BUT NOW I'M HERE.
>> Brown: THE MOVIE IS THE GOOD
LIE, GER DUANY AND MARGARET
NAGLE, THANK YOU BOTH SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
PAKISTANI TEENAGER MALALA
YOUSAFZAI AND INDIA'S KAILASH
SATYARTHI SHARED THE NOBEL PEACE
PRIZE FOR CAMPAIGNING TO EDUCATE
CHILDREN AND PROTECT THEM FROM
SLAVERY.
AND THE NUMBER OF EBOLA DEATHS
WORLDWIDE PASSED 4,000, OUT OF
NEARLY 8,400 CASES.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE,
THROUGHOUT OCTOBER WE'LL BE LIVE
STREAMING DEBATES FROM SOME OF
THE MOST HIGHLY CONTESTED SENATE
AND GOVERNORS RACES IN THE
COUNTRY.
ON SUNDAY NIGHT, WE'RE HOSTING A
SPECIAL SCREENING OF MICHIGAN'S
GUBERNATORIAL DEBATE.
JOIN US AT 6:00 P.M. EASTERN,
AND SEE A SCHEDULE OF MORE
EVENTS, ON OUR RUNDOWN.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS  PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: TONIGHT, WE EXPLORE
WHY EVERY BRANCH OF GOVERNMENT
AFFECTS YOUR LIFE, WHETHER IT'S
COURT ACTION ON GAY MARRIAGE,
EXECUTIVE ACTION ON EBOLA, LEON
PANETTA'S CRITICISM OF THE
PRESIDENT OR THE SHIFTING
BALANCE OF THE SENATE.
THERE'S A LOT GOING GONE ON
EVERY FRONT.
WE'LL TAKE YOU THERE LATER
TONIGHT ON "WASHINGTON WEEK."
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: ON SATURDAY'S
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND, WILLIAM
BRANGHAM REPORTS FROM SAN
FRANCISCO ON THE BATTLE OVER A
PROPOSED TAX ON SUGARY DRINKS IN
AN EFFORT TO COMBAT OBESITY.
>> Woodruff: AND WE'LL BE BACK,
RIGHT HERE, ON MONDAY, WITH A
WALTER ISAACSON CONVERSATION
ABOUT THE INNOVATORS WHO USHERED
IN THE DIGITAL AGE.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT,
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND, THANK YOU
AND GOOD NIGHT.